h1. My Enki fork

h2. Preview: "blog.rybas.org":http://blog.rybas.org and "blog.rybas.ru":http://blog.rybas.ru

h2. How it differs from original Enki

h3. Changes in 'master'. Mostly from the "Agile Pandas fork":https://github.com/agilepandas/enki
    - Google Search removed
    - Haml/Sass integrated (partially)
    - Lots of main layout changes
    - Devise instead of OpenID authorization
    - Live-time post preview
  
h3. Changes in my development branch 'vrybas'
    - Some main layout changes
    - Disqus comments integration
    - Non-automatic slug for posts
    - <cut> tag processing for posts("read more >>"'s on 'index', full text on 'show')
    - Old ActsAsTaggableOnSteroids plugin replaced with ActsAsTaggableOn gem
    - Ranged tags cloud with different sizes for popular tags
    - Disable live-time post preview(because of performance)
    - Feedburner for Atom feeds
    - Google Analytics integration

h3. Changes in 'en' branch (English version of my blog)
    - Identical to 'vrybas', just some config changes

h3. Changes in 'ru' branch (Russian version), forked from 'en'
    - Blog title and author configuration
    - Internationalization yml's
    - gem russian included
    - Disqus for blog.rybas.ru
    - Feedburner blog.rybas.ru
    - Google Analytics for blog.rybas.ru


h1. Original Enki readme

A Ruby on Rails blogging app for the fashionable developer.

Preferences are for the masses. Any real coder knows the easiest and best way to customize something is by *hacking code*. Because you want your blog to be you, not bog standard install #4958 with 20 posts per page instead of 15. For this you need a *clean, simple, easy to understand code base* that stays out of your way. No liquid drops and templates hindering your path, no ugly PHP(Hypertext Preprocessor) stylings burning your eyeballs.

h2. Quick Start

<pre><code>  git clone git://github.com/xaviershay/enki.git enki
  cd enki
  git checkout -b myblog # Create a new work branch
  bundle install         # Install all the required gems

  cp config/database.example.yml config/database.yml
  # Edit config/enki.yml and config/database.yml to taste

  # Next step needs libxml2 and libxslt1 and their headers
  # On Debian-based systems: apt-get install libxml2-dev libxslt1-dev
  # On Mac OS X: no action required

  rake db:migrate
  rake            # Run tests
  rails server    # Start the server
  # Load http://localhost:3000/admin in your browser</code></pre>

Or for bonus points, fork "enki at github":http://github.com/xaviershay/enki/tree/master and clone that instead.

h2. More info

Enki is a compact, easily extendable base for your blog. It does this by being highly opinionated, for example:

* Public facing views should adhere to standards (XHTML(eXtensible Hypertext Markup Language), Atom)
* /yyyy/mm/dd/post-title is a good URL for your posts
* Live comment preview should be provided by default
* Google does search better than you or I
* You don't need a plugin system when you've got decent source control
* If you're not using OpenID you're a chump
* Hacking code is the easiest way to customize something

h2. How it differs from Mephisto

Mephisto is feature packed and quite customizable. It can however be daunting trying to find your way around the code, which isn’t so good if you’re trying to hack in your own features. Enki strips out a lot of the features that you probably don’t need (multiple authors and liquid templates, for example), and focuses on keeping a tight code base that is easy to comprehend and extend.

*If you’re converting from Mephisto,* be sure to have a look at "enki-translator":http://github.com/xaviershay/enki-translator/tree/master

h2. How it differs from SimpleLog

Enki embodies much of the philosophy of SimpleLog, but does so in a style that is much more consistent with Rails best practices, making it easier to understand and hack the code.

h2. Compatibility

Uses rails 3. Runs on MySQL or Postgres. Works on heroku.

h2. Contributors, these guys rock

<pre><code>git log | grep Author | sort | uniq</code></pre>

If you want to help out, try tackling an "open issue":https://github.com/xaviershay/enki/issues.

h2. License

GPL(General Public License) - See LICENSE

Admin design heavily inspired by "Habari":http://www.habariproject.org/en/
